# Genome of Trebouxia sp. 'A48'
* Description of analysis associated with Tagirdzhanova et al. 2025

## Abstract

## Structure of the repository
* `analysis_and_temp_files`: all files generated during labwork and bioinformatic analysis and retained either for reusing, or for documentation purposes. Broken into subfolders by steps
* `code`: all scripts associated with the project. Not including RMarkdown files (they are in `notebook`) and Snakemake files (they are in subfolders in `analysis_and_temp_files`)
* `notebook`: documentation of all labwork and data analysis. Folder contains RMarkdown files used to generate reports, and reports themselves in html. Names match the subfolders of `analysis_and_temp_files`:
	* `01_wet_lab`: description of culturing, nucleic acid isolation, and microscopy
	* `02_genome_annotation`: analyzing the assembly, extraction of nuclear and organelle genomes, annotation of these genomes, and annotation of Trebouxia sp. SL0000003
	* `03_phylogeny`: taxonomic identification of the strain using phylogenomics and ITS-based phylogeny and orthogroup analysis
	* `04_SNP`: variant calling and ploidy analysis
* `results`: figures and tables generated for the publication, including supplementary

## Key outputs
* [Table with genome annotations for Trebouxia sp. 'A48' generated by funannotate, including the gene and transcript ID, coordinates in the genome, and functional annotations]()
* [GFF3 file with annotations for Trebouxia sp. 'A48' genomes]()
* [Table with genome annotations for Trebouxia sp. SL0000003, which we used for comparison]()
* [GFF3 file with annotations for Trebouxia sp. SL0000003]()
* [Maximum-likelihood phylogenetic tree based on ITS sequences of our isolate and sequences from literature in the Newick format]()
* [Phylogenomic tree in the Newick format]()
* [Orthogroups assignment generated by Orthofinder]()
* [Filtered SNPs in vcf format generated by VarScan]()
